# 1.1. What is Programming?

Back to [Home](../../README.md)

It is the process of writing code to solve a particular problem or to implement a particular task.

**Code** is a sequence of instructions that a programmer writes to tell a device (like a computer) what to do.This code is written using some  programming languages eg python, C# ,java, etc

A **programming** language is a language that computers can understand.

# Resourses
>
> 1. <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-programming-tutorial-for-beginners/>
> 2. <https://www.coursera.org/in/articles/what-is-programming>

# Programming Concepts

### some basic programming concepts

**Variable:** A variable is a name that we assign to a value in a computer program. When we define a variable, we assign a value to a name and we allocate a space in memory to store that value. The value of a variable can be updated during the program.

### Example

```text
// here we assign value 2 to avariable x
x = 2
```

**Constant:** A constant is similar to a variable. It stores a value but it cannot be modified. Once you assign a value to a constant, you cannot change it during the entire program.
```text
// HERE PI is constant 
const PI=3.14
```

**Conditional:** A conditional is a programming structure that lets developers choose what the computer should do based on a condition. If the condition is True, something will happen but if the condition is False, something different can happen.

```


```


**Loop:** a loop is a programming structure that let us run a code block (a sequence of instructions) multiple times. They are super helpful to avoid code repetition and to implement more complex functionality.

**Function:** a function helps us to avoid code repetition and to reuse our code. It is like a code block to which we assign a name but it also has some special characteristics. We can write the name of the function to run that sequence of instructions without writing them again.

**Class:** A class is used as a blueprint to define the characteristics and functionality of a type of object. Just like we have objects in our real world, we can represent objects in our programs.
Bug: a bug is an error in the logic or implementation of a program that results in an unexpected or incorrect output.

**Debugging:** Debugging is the process of finding and fixing bugs in a program.

**IDE:** This acronym stands for Integrated Development Environment. It is a software development environment that has the most helpful tools that you will need to write computer programs such as a file editor, an explorer, a terminal, and helpful menu options.
